Embree API
==========

``` {include=src/intro.md}
```
Upgrading from Embree 3 to Embree 4
===================================

- User geometries have to return valid=-1 when a hit was found, or valid=0 when no hit was found.
- For best performance geometry masks should just use 7 mask bits only.
- The default geometry mask got changed from 0xFFFFFFFF to 0x1
- The API include folder got renamed from embree3 to embree4

\pagebreak

Embree API Reference
====================

``` {include=src/api-ref.md}
```

Performance Recommendations
===========================

MXCSR control and status register
---------------------------------

It is strongly recommended to have the `Flush to Zero` and `Denormals
are Zero` mode of the MXCSR control and status register enabled for
each thread before calling the `rtcIntersect`-type and
`rtcOccluded`-type functions. Otherwise, under some circumstances
special handling of denormalized floating point numbers can
significantly reduce application and Embree performance. When using
Embree together with the IntelÂ® Threading Building Blocks, it is
sufficient to execute the following code at the beginning of the
application main thread (before the creation of the
`tbb::task_scheduler_init` object):

    #include <xmmintrin.h>
    #include <pmmintrin.h>
    ...
    _MM_SET_FLUSH_ZERO_MODE(_MM_FLUSH_ZERO_ON);
    _MM_SET_DENORMALS_ZERO_MODE(_MM_DENORMALS_ZERO_ON);

If using a different tasking system, make sure each rendering thread
has the proper mode set.

Thread Creation and Affinity Settings
--------------------------------------

Tasking systems like TBB create worker threads on demand, which will
add a runtime overhead for the very first `rtcCommitScene` call. In
case you want to benchmark the scene build time, you should start the
threads at application startup. You can let Embree start TBB threads
by passing `start_threads=1` to the `cfg` parameter of `rtcNewDevice`.

On machines with a high thread count (e.g. dual-socket Xeon or Xeon
Phi machines), affinitizing TBB worker threads increases build and
rendering performance. You can let Embree affinitize TBB worker
threads by passing `set_affinity=1` to the `cfg` parameter of
`rtcNewDevice`. By default, threads are not affinitized by Embree with
the exception of Xeon Phi Processors where they are affinitized by
default.

All Embree tutorials automatically start and affinitize TBB worker
threads by passing `start_threads=1,set_affinity=1` to `rtcNewDevice`.

Fast Coherent Rays
------------------

For getting the highest performance for highly coherent rays, e.g.
primary or hard shadow rays, it is recommended to use packets or
streams of single rays/packets with setting the
`RTC_INTERSECT_CONTEXT_FLAG_COHERENT` flag in the
`RTCIntersectContext` passed to the `rtcIntersect`/`rtcOccluded`
calls. The total number of rays in a coherent stream of ray packets
should be around 64, e.g. 8 times 8-wide packets, or 4 times 16-wide
packets. The rays inside each packet should be grouped as coherent as
possible.

Huge Page Support
-----------------

It is recommended to use huge pages under Linux to increase rendering
performance. Embree supports 2MB huge pages under Windows, Linux, and
macOS. Under Linux huge page support is enabled by default, and under
Windows and macOS disabled by default. Huge page support can be
enabled in Embree by passing `hugepages=1` to `rtcNewDevice` or
disabled by passing `hugepages=0` to `rtcNewDevice`.

We recommend using 2MB huge pages with Embree under Linux as this
improves ray tracing performance by about 5-10%. Under Windows using
huge pages requires the application to run in elevated mode which is a
security issue, thus likely not an option for most use cases. Under
macOS huge pages are rarely available as memory tends to get quickly
fragmented, thus we do not recommend using huge pages on macOS.

### Huge Pages under Linux

Linux supports transparent huge pages and explicit huge pages. To
enable transparent huge page support under Linux, execute the
following as root:

    echo always > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled

When transparent huge pages are enabled, the kernel tries to merge 4KB
pages to 2MB pages when possible as a background job. Many Linux
distributions have transparent huge pages enabled by default. See the
following webpage for more information on
[transparent huge pages under Linux](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/vm/transhuge.txt).
In this mode each application, including your rendering application
based on Embree, will automatically tend to use huge pages.

Using transparent huge pages, the transitioning from 4KB to 2MB pages
might take some time. For that reason Embree also supports allocating
2MB pages directly when a huge page pool is configured. Such a pool
can be configured by writing some number of huge pages to allocate to
`/proc/sys/vm/nr_overcommit_hugepages` as root user. E.g. to configure
2GB of address space for huge page allocation, execute the following as
root:

    echo 1000 > /proc/sys/vm/nr_overcommit_hugepages

See the following webpage for more information on [huge pages under
Linux](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/vm/hugetlbpage.txt).

### Huge Pages under Windows

To use huge pages under Windows, the current user must have the "Lock
pages in memory" (SeLockMemoryPrivilege) assigned. This can be
configured through the "Local Security Policy" application, by adding
a user to "Local Policies" -> "User Rights Assignment" -> "Lock pages
in memory". You have to log out and in again for this change to take
effect.

Further, your application must be executed as an elevated process
("Run as administrator") and the "SeLockMemoryPrivilege" must be
explicitly enabled by your application. Example code on how to
enable this privilege can be found in the "common/sys/alloc.cpp" file
of Embree. Alternatively, Embree will try to enable this privilege
when passing `enable_selockmemoryprivilege=1` to `rtcNewDevice`.
Further, huge pages should be enabled in Embree by passing
`hugepages=1` to `rtcNewDevice`.

When the system has been running for a while, physical memory gets
fragmented, which can slow down the allocation of huge pages
significantly under Windows.

### Huge Pages under macOS

To use huge pages under macOS you have to pass `hugepages=1` to
`rtcNewDevice` to enable that feature in Embree.

When the system has been running for a while, physical memory gets
quickly fragmented, and causes huge page allocations to fail. For this
reason, huge pages are not very useful under macOS in practice.

## Avoid store-to-load forwarding issues with single rays

We recommend to use a single SSE store to set up the `org` and `tnear`
components, and a single SSE store to set up the `dir` and `time`
components of a single ray (`RTCRay` type). Storing these values using
scalar stores causes a store-to-load forwarding penalty because Embree
is reading these components using SSE loads later on.

\pagebreak


